Introducing Rate Your Experience!

Our purpose was to create a tool to be used in the collection of consumer-satisfaction information - a local Real Estate Association operated rating site similar to RateMyProfessor.com that encompasses all facets and service providers of the real estate transaction including:  brokerages, real estate licensees, lenders, inspectors (home, termite, radon, mold, etc.), title companies, builders, home warranty companies, contractors, attorneys, and moving companies. The system should also be expandable to include a more contemporary method of handling Professional Standards and Dispute Resolution issues.
Although there may be some programs available that rate the real estate agents, we are creating a total transaction evaluation to provide a complete picture of those that have responsibility for the professional success of the buyers and sellers experience.
The system will also be accessible by member service providers to access reports which will help determine strengths and areas for improvement, trends and overall customer satisfaction. It will serve as a tool for brokers (service providers) in monitoring the actions of their agents (employees), assist in creating appropriate education to raise the level of service and address company risk reduction.
Another factor which separates Rate Your Experience from other rating systems is the ability for the Agent and Service Providers involved with the rated transactions to provide mediated feedback on the transactions they are rated for - allowing all parties involved to tell the story of the transaction. Fluid API allows rated parties to display their ratings and details about their transactions in a variety of methods.

Product Summary:

Work began on Rate Your Experience‚Äù almost immediately after the Peoria Area Association of Realtors was notified that we had been awarded one of NAR's ‚Game Changers. Working with our consulting partners, Clareity Consulting's Gregg Larson and Matt Cohen, a comprehensive schedule of the planned work it would take to bring Rate Your Experience to life was constructed. We identified the importance of sticking to a schedule very early on. With a tight deadline, we would need to make the most of our individual and combined efforts. The first steps included fleshing out the product, top to bottom. This encompassed everything from determining the key role-players in the system to designing the flow of information in and out of the system. Through valuable face-to-face meetings with our Consultant, we created a detailed RFP Request for Proposal).  In order to ensure that work was completed by the May 2010 deadline set forth by NAR and that we had a working product to demonstrate at NAR's Mid-Year meetings, we categorized features of the system into Phases (Phase 1 items were critical to meet the deadline while Phase 3 items may become future enhancements to the product.) We also crafted screen and report mockups, flowcharts and other graphical tools to help the vendor understand the vision Rate your Experience project.
The project specifications were presented to our Game Changers task force (consisting of agents and brokers) and, after minor tweaks, the RFP was submitted to 5 industry vendors, of which 4 submitted proposals. Ultimately, Ronin Technologies won the bid.

Working together with our Consultant and Vendor, we planned milestone meetings around deadlines based on the project Phases. GoToMeeting served as an early platform for sharing visual elements of the system. As functionality became live, a test environment was established.

Currently we have begun testing the system's core functionality (automated notifications, the consumer survey and the Admin, Agent, Broker and Service Provider Dashboards) utilizing live RETS data blended with data from our SQL-based membership system.


Project Value to Other Associations:

The immediate value to other Associations is the open-source licensing nature of the system, ensuring that they'll be able to set it on top of their data sources and use it‚ out of the box‚ or customize the system to meet their Association's needs as they see fit.
More important is the opportunities the system will create through communication. By encouraging the consumer to tell their story honestly, accountability rests squarely on those agents and service providers being rated. Associations add value by helping those who shine get the word out to future clients‚ and to provide brokers the tools they need to address problem areas and to see how their individual agents and collective brokerages are performing. Results will undoubtedly help brokers and Associations identify training and services.
We've talked about standards for a number of years, and we believe this game changing initiative will help all Associations and brokerages strive for higher levels of professionalism - through accountability of the Realtor, and the service providers associated with the transaction.